README.md, before:

Broken JAR file produced by Maven Assembly Plugin
=================================================

This is a small sample project that demonstrates an issue with JAR files
created by the [Maven Assembly Plugin][1]. They are somehow broken under
certain circumstances, i.e. some directory entries are erroneously archived as
file entries, which makes those files unextractable via the `jar x` command.

I filed [MASSEMBLY-851][MASSEMBLY-851] for this.

Apparently, this is an OS specific that's not reproducible on Windows. To
verify this, I set up a Linux build on Travis CI and a Windows build on
AppVeyor:

[![Travis CI build status](https://travis-ci.org/twz123/broken-assembly.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/twz123/broken-assembly)
[![AppVeyor build status](http://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/twz123/broken-assembly?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/twz123/broken-assembly)

[1]: https://maven.apache.org/components/plugins/maven-assembly-plugin/
[MASSEMBLY-851]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/MASSEMBLY-851


## Verify the problem

Run `./mvnw clean verify`.

The test `com.github.twz123.brokenassembly.BrokenAssemblyIT.unjarBrokenAssembly`
should fail with an exception like the following:

    java.io.FileNotFoundException: META-INF/maven (Is a directory)
            at java.io.FileOutputStream.open0(Native Method)
            at java.io.FileOutputStream.open(FileOutputStream.java:270)
            at java.io.FileOutputStream.<init>(FileOutputStream.java:213)
            at java.io.FileOutputStream.<init>(FileOutputStream.java:162)
            at sun.tools.jar.Main.copy(Main.java:909)
            at sun.tools.jar.Main.extractFile(Main.java:1069)
            at sun.tools.jar.Main.extract(Main.java:981)
            at sun.tools.jar.Main.run(Main.java:311)
            at sun.tools.jar.Main.main(Main.java:1288)

Tested on Linux x64 using Oracle Java 1.8.0\_121 (build 1.8.0\_121-b13).

Commit message:

Fix the issue by upgrading to a more recent Maven JAR plugin version.

README.md, after:

Broken JAR file produced by Maven Assembly Plugin
=================================================

**UPDATE: This issue can be solved easily. Just upgrade to a more recent Maven
JAR Plugin version (at least 2.5). More info below.**

This is a small sample project that demonstrates an issue with JAR files
created by the [Maven Assembly Plugin][1]. They are somehow broken under
certain circumstances, i.e. some directory entries are erroneously archived as
file entries, which makes those files unextractable via the `jar x` command.

I filed [MASSEMBLY-851][MASSEMBLY-851] for this.

Apparently, this is an OS specific that's not reproducible on Windows. To
verify this, I set up a Linux build on Travis CI and a Windows build on
AppVeyor:

[![Travis CI build status](https://travis-ci.org/twz123/broken-assembly.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/twz123/broken-assembly)
[![AppVeyor build status](http://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/twz123/broken-assembly?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/twz123/broken-assembly)

[1]: https://maven.apache.org/components/plugins/maven-assembly-plugin/
[MASSEMBLY-851]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/MASSEMBLY-851


## Verify the problem

Run `./mvnw clean verify -P '!fix-by-upgrading-jar-plugin'`.

The test `com.github.twz123.brokenassembly.BrokenAssemblyIT.unjarBrokenAssembly`
should fail with an exception like the following:

    java.io.FileNotFoundException: META-INF/maven (Is a directory)
            at java.io.FileOutputStream.open0(Native Method)
            at java.io.FileOutputStream.open(FileOutputStream.java:270)
            at java.io.FileOutputStream.<init>(FileOutputStream.java:213)
            at java.io.FileOutputStream.<init>(FileOutputStream.java:162)
            at sun.tools.jar.Main.copy(Main.java:909)
            at sun.tools.jar.Main.extractFile(Main.java:1069)
            at sun.tools.jar.Main.extract(Main.java:981)
            at sun.tools.jar.Main.run(Main.java:311)
            at sun.tools.jar.Main.main(Main.java:1288)

Tested on Linux x64 using Oracle Java 1.8.0\_121 (build 1.8.0\_121-b13).


## Cause

This is not caused by the Maven Assembly Plugin in the first place, although
the issue just pops up when using it. It was actually an issue during the
packaging phase in which the main project artifact was built: Maven 3.3.9 uses
by default the rather ancient version 2.4 of the Maven JAR Plugin. This
version in turn uses Plexus Archiver 2.1. That version has a [bug that has
already been fixed in 2012][PLEXCOMP-199] in the next patch version 2.1.1.

[PLEXCOMP-199]: https://github.com/codehaus-plexus/plexus-archiver/commit/a159f8355f957966e011b523a1698ee17900c7fc


## Solution

Use Maven JAR Plugin in a version >= 2.5. Version 2.5 ships with Plexus
Archiver 2.4.4 ([MJAR-168][MJAR-168]).

[MJAR-168]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/MJAR-168
